---
title: "Chapter 3 - Functional Programming in Kotlin"
layout: post
date: "2016-11-06T00:00:00-06:00"
published: true
series: "Functional Programming in Scala in Kotlin"
---

First we have to rewrite the Scala based singly linked list from Listing 3.1 of FPiS. We are 
using Kotlin 1.1, the code below will not compile in anything older than that.
  
On line 7, we create {% ih kotlin %}sealed class MyList<out A>{% endih %}. We can
seal the class because the only subclasses will be defined in this file (right below on lines 8 and
9). By making it a {% ih kotlin %}sealed class{% endih %}, we can then have
exhaustive {% ih kotlin %}when{% endih %}'s that don't need an {% ih kotlin
%}else{% endih %} clause. I used the name MyList instead of FPiS's List class because it
will make it easier differentiating between all of the other classes/interfaces with the name List.

For the {% ih kotlin %}Nil{% endih %} object, in Scala it was defined as a {%
ih kotlin %}case object{% endih %}, but we can't define a {% ih kotlin %}data
object{% endih %} in Kotlin. For the {% ih kotlin %}Cons{% endih %} class,
we can define it as a {% ih kotlin %}data{% endih %} class. Both of these
definitions are pretty close to their Scala counterparts.

In the {% ih kotlin %}sum(){% endih %} function, we start to see some differences in
how the pattern matching works. With Scala, you can specify variables that are accessed on the right
side of the arrow -- {% ih kotlin %}case Cons(x,xs){% endih %}. In Kotlin, you can't
destructure the internal values like that, but with the smart cast (line 13), we can do the same
thing by accessing the values that are part of {% ih kotlin %}Cons{% endih %}.

The {% ih kotlin %}product(){% endih %} function diverges even further from the pattern matching in
Scala. In Scala, you can check against multiple different parameter values. With Kotlin, you can
only check against the class once (line 18). After that, we can do a {% ih kotlin %}when{%
endih %} match on the smart cast {% ih kotlin %}ds.head{% endih %} parameter and check it's value
and take the correct action (lines 19 and 20).

Finally in the  {% ih kotlin %}myListOf(){% endih %} factory function, which performs the same
function as the {% ih scala %}apply(){% endih %} Scala function in FPiS Listing 3.1. The Kotlin {%
ih kotlin %}vararg{% endih %}s can't be expanded inline like you can in Scala, so we have to take a
different approach to building the list. I took the same approach as the {% ih kotlin %}fibonacci()
{% endih %} function, using an inner {% ih kotlin %}tailrec{% endih %} loop. 

{% highlight kotlin linenos %}
{% include_code /home/bill/src/functional-programming-in-kotlin/src/main/kotlin/ws/billdavis/fpik/chapter03/MyList.kt %}
{% endhighlight %}
